Migrate scheduling-in-airflow guide (#1251)
astronomer/docs: concepts/scheduling-in-airflow.md

---

> title: "DAG scheduling and timetables"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "DAG scheduling and timetables in Airflow"
```

- **Backfilling and Catchup**: Related to scheduling. To learn more, see [DAG Runs](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html).

The `execution_date` concept was deprecated in Airflow 2.2. If you're using an older versions of Airflow and need more information about `execution_date`, see [What does execution_date mean?](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/faq.html#faq-what-does-execution-date-mean).

### Parameters

The following parameters ensure your DAGs run at the correct time:

- **`data_interval_start`**: Defines the start date and time of the data interval. A DAG's timetable will return this parameter for each DAG run. This parameter is created automatically by Airflow, or is specified by the user when implementing a custom timetable.
- **`data_interval_end`**: Defines the end date and time of the data interval. A DAG's timetable will return this parameter for each DAG run. This parameter is created automatically by Airflow, or is specified by the user when implementing a custom timetable.

> - **`schedule`**: Defines when that DAG will be run and set at the DAG level. It accepts cron expressions, timedelta objects, timetables, and lists of datasets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`schedule`**: Defines when a DAG will be run. This value is set at the DAG configuration level. It accepts cron expressions, timedelta objects, timetables, and lists of datasets.
```

- **`start_date`**: The first date your DAG will be executed. This parameter is required for your DAG to be scheduled by Airflow.
- **`end_date`**: The last date your DAG will be executed. This parameter is optional.

> In Airflow 2.3 and earlier, the `schedule_interval` is used instead of the `schedule` parameter and it only accepts cron expressions or timedelta objects. Additionally, timetables have to be passed using the `timetable` parameter, which was deprecated in Airflow 2.4 and later. In versions of Airflow 2.2 and earlier, specifying `schedule_interval` is the only way to define a DAG schedule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Airflow 2.3 and earlier, the `schedule_interval` is used instead of the `schedule` parameter and it only accepts cron expressions or timedelta objects. Additionally, timetables have to be passed using the `timetable` parameter, which was deprecated in Airflow 2.4 and later. In versions prior ti Airflow 2.2, specifying `schedule_interval` is the only way to define a DAG schedule.
```
Minor error somebody from CRE just pointed out in the guides repo.

Author: @kentdanas the use of _earlier_ is correct. Our preferred style guide the _Google developer documentation style guide_ states the following:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/192267323-1d18c92b-50f0-44f5-8ac4-d00258ef2460.png)

_Prior to_ is incorrect here.

### Example

> To demonstrate how these concepts work together, you'll assume that you have a DAG that is scheduled to run every 5 minutes. Looking at the most recent DAG run, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:37:33`, which is displayed in the **Data interval start** field in the following image. The logical date is also included in the **Run ID** field and identifies the DAG run in the Airflow metadata database. The value in the **Data interval end** field is 5 minutes later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To demonstrate how these concepts work together, consider a DAG that is scheduled to run every 5 minutes. Looking at the most recent DAG run, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:37:33`, which is displayed in the **Data interval start** field in the following image. The logical date is also included in the **Run ID** field and identifies the DAG run in the Airflow metadata database. The value in the **Data interval end** field is 5 minutes later.
```

![5 Minute Example DAG](/img/guides/2_4_5minExample.png)

> If you look at the next DAG run in the UI, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:42:33`, which is shown as the **Next Run** value in the Airflow UI. This is 5 minutes after the previous logical date, and the same value shown in the **Data interval end** field of the last DAG run because there are no gaps in the schedule. If you hover over **Next Run**, you can see that the run after value, which is the date and time that the next DAG run will actually start, matches the value in the **Data interval end** field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you look at the next DAG run in the UI, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:42:33`, which is shown as the **Next Run** value in the Airflow UI. This is 5 minutes after the previous logical date, and the same value shown in the **Data interval end** field of the previous DAG run. If you hover over **Next Run**, you can see that the **Run After** value, which is the date and time that the next DAG run will actually start, matches the value in the **Data interval end** field:
```

![5 Minute Next Run](/img/guides/2_4_5minExample_next_run.png)

> You've reviewed two DAG runs with the following settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To compare the two successive DAG runs in brief:
```

> - DAG run 1 with the run ID `scheduled__2022-08-28T22:37:33.620191+00:00` has a logical date of `2022-08-28 22:37:33`, a data interval start of `2022-08-28 22:37:33` and a data interval end of `2022-08-28 22:42:33`. This DAG run will actually start at `2022-08-28 22:42:33`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DAG run 1 (`scheduled__2022-08-28T22:37:33.620191+00:00`) has a logical date of `2022-08-28 22:37:33`, a data interval start of `2022-08-28 22:37:33` and a data interval end of `2022-08-28 22:42:33`. This DAG run will actually start at `2022-08-28 22:42:33`.
```

> - DAG run 2 with the run ID `scheduled__2022-08-28T22:42:33.617231+00:00` has a logical date of `2022-08-28 22:42:33`, a data interval start of `2022-08-28 22:42:33` and a data interval end of `2022-08-28 22:47:33`. This DAG run will actually start at `2022-08-28 22:47:33`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DAG run 2 (`scheduled__2022-08-28T22:42:33.617231+00:00`) has a logical date of `2022-08-28 22:42:33`, a data interval start of `2022-08-28 22:42:33` and a data interval end of `2022-08-28 22:47:33`. This DAG run will actually start at `2022-08-28 22:47:33`.
```
